- [Narrator] Filters are another component
found in the Servlet specification.
Filters sit in front of Servlets
to allow transformations to be applied
to request and responses process by a Java EE application.
This is beneficial when building an application
that requires some logic to be applied to every request.
Logging and security are very common use cases for filters.
Let's take a look at how we can put a filter in place
within our application.
It's really simple.
All we need to do
is go to the com dot LinkedIn dot Servlet package.
Right click, and then hover over new,
and then go to other.
Within the new dialogue,
we can simply type filter,
and that will narrow down the selection
to the filter object.
And just select that and hit next.
And then here we can supply a name for our filter,
which I'm going to name the Parameter Logging Filter.
Once that name's in place, we can hit next.
And then you'll notice that filters have a mapping
very similar to a Servlet.
So this is a url pattern that we can specify
that will cause the filter to be invoked
within the request processing chain.
Now, we're going to go ahead and edit the url pattern.
And instead of parameter logging filter,
we're going to specify forward slash asterisk.
And that's going to cause this filter
to be invoked for every request that we receive.
Now, with that configuration in place,
all we can do is hit finish.
And that's going to cause
our new parameter logging filter to be built.
And you'll notice a few things about this class.
First, it implements the filter interface.
And you'll also see that is annotated
with the web filter annotation
which will cause this class to be initialized as a filter.
You'll also see the url pattern
that we have applied for the mapping for this filter
at the first element within that web filter annotation.
So that's how the filter gets configured.
And then if we navigate further down
within our filter class,
you'll see that we have the do filter method.
And this is the method implementation
that will provide our application logic within.
You'll also see that this method
has access to the Servlet request and Servlet response
as arguments pass to it.
And what we're going to do is use that request object
to get the parameter map.
Now, the parameter map is just a map of the parameters
that have been passed in with the HTTP request.
And then we can grab the entry set from that map,
and then use the string feature from Java 8
in order to execute a method for every entry in that map.
And we're simply going to print out the parameter name
and the parameter value.
And we can do that by printing it to the console,
and using the string dot format method
which allows us to pass in the values that we would like.
So we can get the key from the map.
And then we can also get the value from the map.
And the value set that's going to be returned is an array.
You can have parameters with the same name,
and they'll be supplied as an array.
So we're just going to grab the first element in that array.
So there we have our filter implementation.
And one thing that you will notice
is that we call the do filter method on the filter chain.
And this is simply telling the request processing
to invoke the next filter in the chain,
or if there are no other filters,
the Servlet will then be invoked
and have the application logic applied.
So there's our filter.
Let's now run our application.
So we can right click on the project,
go to run as, and then run on server.
And there we see the server start up.
And here we will get the url to our application.
And what I'm actually going to do is take that url,
and we'll go over to Chrome,
and there we can see our application running.
And then I'm going to head back to Eclipse
so we can get a look at the console
so that we can see our parameters being logged.
So here's the console,
let's go ahead, we'll say it's shoes.
We'll say this time it's awesome shoes.
And then we'll provide an SKU, hit submit.
And there if we take a look,
you will notice that our parameter logging filter
intercepted the request and printed out all the parameters
that were found within that HTTP request.
So, there's how filters can be applied
within our applications.
If we would like to have some sort of logic
that is applied to every request.